https://www.austinisd.org/arts

Fine Arts at Austin ISD

The Austin ISD Fine Arts Department believes that a Fine Arts education is essential for the development of the whole child. The arts provide students with unique experiences that allow them to explore their passions, maximize their creativity and critical thinking skills, and learn valuable lessons about self-motivation, dedication, teamwork and communication.
2023 Austin ISD Summer Theatre Series
2023 Austin ISD Summer Theatre Series Flyer
There are four steps in the audition process:

    Fill out this Google Form by midnight on March 21.
    Join the Blend Class: 2023 AISD STS
    VIEW the information on the Blend class. 
    SUBMIT the appropriate audition videos by midnight on March 21.

Program Information

    The Summer Theatre Series is a free summer theatre program open to current 5th graders through graduating seniors. The program takes place Monday-Friday 9am-5pm at the AISD Performing Arts Center.
    The program has five tracks and runs from June 5-July 24.  (Leads may be asked to begin on May 31.)
    Students in the one-week STS Rising Stars Camp will attend classes Monday-Friday from 9am-5pm the week of June 5-9 and will have a public share on June 9.
    Students in the Black Box production will begin the regular 9am to 5pm schedule June 5 and will continue this schedule through to tech week when they will be expected to attend extended rehearsals, and evening and weekend performances July 10-15.
    Students in the Musical will begin the regular 9am to 5pm schedule June 6 and will continue this schedule through tech week when they will be expected to attend extended rehearsals, and evening and weekend performances July 17-22. 
    We will not have rehearsals the week of July 3-7.

For more information, please email Jessica.Champion@austinisd.org.

AISD is a recognized leader in urban education and is dedicated to providing an arts-rich education for every student. Fine Arts education is available at all 117 schools. Every elementary student in the district receives a high-quality education in:

    Music
    Visual Arts

Secondary schools throughout AISD offer many different Fine Arts strands for students to pursue:

    Band
    Choir
    Dance
    Guitar
    Orchestra
    Theatre
    Visual Arts

Each of these sequential courses, all of which feature a meaningful and rigorous curriculum taught by expert staff, provides students with the knowledge and skills necessary for cognitive, creative, emotional and social growth. By enrolling in these Fine Arts courses, students are also eligible to participate in clinics and contests such as All-City Guitar, All-City Band, All-City Choir, UIL Concert and Sight Reading, One Act Play, Dance Spectacular and Visual Art Scholastic Event, as well as various concerts, events and art exhibits throughout the community. Fine Arts students from AISD have won numerous district, state and national awards and scholarships, and many have gone on to pursue the arts in higher education and beyond.

In addition to Fine Arts education, Austin ISD offers Fine Arts Academies for students interested in an accelerated arts curriculum.