Overview

The AISD STEM Department collaborates with diverse communities of learners to help design opportunities for authentic engagements within the world of Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics as they become college, career, and life ready.
The STEM INITIATIVE

In an ever-changing, increasingly complex world, it's more important than ever that our nation's youth are prepared to bring knowledge and skills to solve problems, make sense of information, and know how to gather and evaluate evidence to make decisions. These are the kinds of skills that students develop in science, technology, engineering and math—disciplines collectively known as STEM. If we want a nation where our future leaders, neighbors, and workers have the ability to understand and solve some of the complex challenges of today and tomorrow, and to meet the demands of the dynamic and evolving workforce, building students' skills, content knowledge, and fluency in STEM fields is essential. We must ensure that, no matter where children live, they have access to a quality and equitable educational experience.
Mathematics Overview

Students in the Austin Independent School District Mathematics program will acquire the mathematics knowledge and skills necessary to be productive, successful, and fulfilled citizens.
We believe:

    Our curriculum supports learning through exploration and solving real-world problems across all grade levels and allows students to construct meaning and make sense of learning mathematics.
    Our students are challenged to explain their solutions and make connections that allow them to own and value learning mathematics.
    Our classrooms are safe and engage students in learning mathematics through discussion and sharing ideas.
    As teachers, we engage students using resources, tools, and technology to solve mathematically rich, real-world problems that meet the needs of a diverse population of learners.

Curriculum

The mathematics curriculum in AISD is designed to support the Texas Essential Knowledge and Skills (TEKS) standards set by the Texas Education Agency (TEA). Please see the links for more information on the standards appropriate for your student.

    Math TEKS

Signature Programs

    Math Pentathlon
    DreamBox
    iTutoring

Science Overview

The AISD Science Team is devoted to serving science teachers and students. Our challenge is to provide a dynamic, collaborative system of services that addresses the unique needs of each campus, teacher, and student in AISD. Our goal is not to factory-assemble scientists, but rather to shape students into scientifically literate citizens who are knowledgeable and considerate of the processes that affect our world. We promote classroom and outdoor investigations to instill critical thinking and awareness, and integrate technology to promote information and media literacy.
Curriculum

The AISD Science Team works to design and disseminate engaging, authentic, and accessible science curriculum for a highly diverse student population. We remove obstacles that block meaningful science instruction by providing materials, instructional support, and professional development. Our curriculum is designed to support the Texas Essential Knowledge and Skills standards set by the Texas Education Agency.
For more information, please see the documents below:

    Science TEKS

Contact  Information

Danielle Perico
Assistant Director, STEM
512-414-4791
